Angular 8 Introduction
----------------------
Angular is the most popular JavaScript framework and platform for developing client-side (front-end) 
mobile and desktop web apps or single page applications (SPAs).

Angular community has released its latest version known as Angular 8. 
If you are familiar with previous version of Angular, it will not be difficult for you. 
You can easily upgrade your older version of Angular to latest version Angular 8.

What is Angular 8?
------------------
Angular 8 is an open-source, client-side TypeScript based JavaScript framework. 
It is written in TypeScript and complied into JavaScript. 
Angular 8 is used to create dynamic web applications. 
It is very similar to its previous versions except having some extensive features.

What is a dynamic web application?
----------------------------------
A dynamic web application is simply a dynamic website. i.e. www.gmail.com, www.facebook.com, 
www.yahoo.com etc. which has a tendency to change data/information with respect to 3 parameters:

Time-to-time (eg. news update webs applications)
Location-to-location (eg. Weather-report web applications)
User-to-user (eg. Gmail, Facebook type applications)

Angular Previous Versions
-------------------------
AngularJS (also known as Angular 1.0): AngularJS is a JavaScript based open-source frontend web framework developed and maintained by Google. AngularJS can be added to an HTML page with a <script> tag. 
Because AngularJS was the first version of the Angular, so it is also known as Angular 1. 
AngularJS was first released on October 20, 2010 by a team of Google. 

Angular 2: Angular 2 was a complete rewrite of AngularJS. 
It was first released in May 2016 and the final version was released on September 14, 2016.

Angular 4: Angular 4 was the updated version of Angular 2. 
The Google team skipped the Angular 3 to avoid the confusion due to the 
misalignment of the router package's version which was already distributed as v3.3.0.

Angular 5: Angular 5 was the improved version of the previous one. 
It was released on November 1, 2017 and improved the support for progressive web apps.

Angular 6: Angular 6 Angular 6 was released on May 4, 2018. It was a major released focused on ng update, 
ng add, Angular Elements, Angular Material + CDK Components, Angular Material Starter Components, 
CLI Workspaces, Library Support, Tree Shakable Providers, Animations Performance Improvements, and RxJS v6.

Angular 7: Angular 7 was released on October 18, 2018. It was focused on Application Performance, 
Angular Material & CDK, Virtual Scrolling, Improved Accessibility etc.

Angular 8: Angular 8 is the latest version running nowadays. 
Angular 8 is released on May 28, 2019. It is mainly focused on Differential loading, 
Dynamic imports for lazy routes, web workers and Angular Ivy as an opt-in support. 
It also supports TypeScript 3.4.

# Angular-Tutorial
Installation:
--------------------
Step-1: download node and Install
 https://nodejs.org/en/download
Step-2:To verify if the installation was successful, enter the command in the terminal window.
node –v
Step-3: install TypeScript.
npm install -g typescript
Step-4: Use npm to Install Angular CLI
Use the following command to install Angular CLI

npm install -g @angular/cli  
Or
npm install -g @angular/cli@latest   

Step-5: To check Node and Angular CLI version, 
use ng --version

To create an app
----------------
ng new app_name
eg. ng new Hello-World

Step-6: To run

cd Hello-World
ng serve
or
npm start


Files used in Angular 8 App folder
---------------------------------------
Angular 8 App files which are mainly used in your project are given below:

src folder: This is the folder which contains the main code files related to your angular application.
app folder: The app folder contains the files, you have created for app components.

app.component.css: This file contains the cascading style sheets code for your app component.

app.component.html: This file contains the html file related to app component. 
This is the template file which is used by angular to do the data binding.

app.component.spec.ts: This file is a unit testing file related to app component. 
This file is used along with other unit tests. It is run from Angular CLI by the command ng test.

app.component.ts: This is the most important typescript file 
which includes the view logic behind the component.

app.module.ts: This is also a typescript file which includes all the dependencies for the website. 
This file is used to define the needed modules to be imported, 
the components to be declared and the main component to be bootstrapped.

package.json: This contains all the information of your web app.It contains all the metadata{set of data which describes and gives info about all other data}.
In layman terms it is the first file your browser looks for, to find all the information of your web app.
There are fields for the description and keywords of your projects like dependencies.

angular.json:	CLI configuration defaults for all projects in the workspace, including 
configuration options for build, serve, and test tools that the CLI uses,

Angular 8 Architecture
------------------------
Angular 8 is a platform and a framework which is used to build client applications in HTML and TypeScript.

Angular 8 is written in TypeScript. It implements core and optional functionality as a set of TypeScript 
libraries that you can import into your apps.

The basic building blocks of an Angular application are NgModules, 
which provide a compilation context for components. 
NgModules collect related code into functional sets; an Angular app is defined by a set of NgModules. 
An app always has at least a root module that enables bootstrapping, 
and typically has many more feature modules.

Components define views, which are sets of screen elements that Angular can choose among and modify 
according to your program logic and data.

Components use services, which provide specific functionality not directly related to views. 
Service providers can be injected into components as dependencies, 
making your code modular, reusable, and efficient.

Angular 8 Components
------------------------
In Angular 8, Components and services both are simply classes with decorators that mark their 
types and provide metadata which guide Angular to do things.

Every Angular application always has at least one component known as root component that connects 
a page hierarchy with page DOM. Each component defines a class that contains application data and logic, 
and is associated with an HTML template that defines a view to be displayed in a target environment.

Metadata of Component class
----------------------------

The metadata for a component class associates it with a template that defines a view. 
A template combines ordinary HTML with Angular directives and binding markup that allow Angular 
to modify the HTML before rendering it for display.

The metadata for a service class provides the information Angular needs to make it available to 
components through dependency injection (DI).

Modules
---------
Angular 8 NgModules are different from other JavaScript modules. 
Every Angular 8 app has a root module known as AppModule. 
It provides the bootstrap mechanism that launches the application.

Generally, every Angular 8 app contains many functional modules.

Some important features of Anngular 8 Modules:

1. Angular 8 NgModules import the functionalities form other NgModules just like other JavaScript modules.
2. NgModules allow their own functionality to be exported and used by other NgModules. For example, 
if you want to use the router service in your app, you can import the Router NgModule.

Template, Directives and Data Binding
------------------------------------
In Angular 8, a template is used to combine HTML with Angular Markup and modify HTML elements 
before displaying them. Template directives provide program logic, 
and binding markup connects your application data and the DOM.

There are two types of data binding:
------------------------------------

1. Event Binding: Event binding is used to bind events to your app and respond to user input 
in the target environment by updating your application data.

2. Property Binding: Property binding is used to pass data from component class and 
facilitates you to interpolate values that are computed from your application data into the HTML.

Services and Dependency Injection
---------------------------------
In Angular 8, developers create a service class for data or logic that isn't 
associated with a specific view, and they want to share across components.

Dependency Injection (DI) is used to make your component classes lean and efficient. 
DI doesn't fetch data from the server, validate user input, or log directly to the console; 
it simply renders such tasks to services.

Routing3
---------
In Angular 8, Router is an NgModule which provides a service that facilitates developers to 
define a navigation path among the different application states and view hierarchies in their app.

It works in the same way as a browser's navigation works. i.e.:

1. Enter a URL in the address bar and the browser will navigate to that corresponding page.
2. Click the link on a page and the browser will navigate to a new page.
3. Click the browser's back or forward buttons and the browser will navigate backward or 
forward according to your seen history pages.
